 I think every one of you is familiar with what the CEO is of a company or the COO. We have a very clear sense of the role of these individuals within an organization. But what about the CRO, the Chief Risk Officer? I'd urge you to consider that if your life and your journey in this longevity space is that of a company, then you are the CEO of that company. But the question is, what are you going to do about risk management? Do you need a CRO? I would argue the answer is yes. There's both great risk and great uncertainty in what we're doing. And therefore, we want to take a dedicated approach to thinking through this. So how do we think about this through our own lives? How do we start to capture risk, uncertainty, and all of these things that feed into decisions we need to make in terms of actions we take and ways that we prioritize the single most precious resource we have, which is time? How are you going to spend the hours and minutes of your day organizing your activities and your behaviors around a strategy to improve your lifespan and healthspan? That's going to be the job of your Chief Risk Officer. In the coming months of this program, you will at times feel like you're being overwhelmed with information, like you're drinking from a fire hose. I can assure you we're not having you do this for the sake of doing it. The purpose is to get you as familiar with the intricacies of all of the things that are here to rob you of lifespan and healthspan. Only by understanding these things in great detail can you begin to form strategies to counteract them. Imagine I asked you to get in your car in San Diego, California and drive to New York City, but you didn't have a dashboard in your car. So at no point during this journey could you know how fast you were going. At no point during this journey could you know your oil temperature, could you know how much gas you have in the tank, and I'll take away your GPS as well. Do you think you'd make it there? I mean, chances are you'd have a really hard time doing so. And that's with something as simple as driving from one place to another. Now imagine I'm asking you to figure out a way to add 10 years to your lifespan and improve your healthspan in such a way that the last decade of your life is still a remarkable period of time. Think about how much more complicated that problem is. Now imagine doing that without a dashboard. Over about the past decade, I've put a lot of thought into how can I organize my prioritization around this objective? How can I organize my thinking around how I'm going to prioritize energy for myself and my patients when it comes to achieving this goal of living longer and living better? And what I've come up with is indeed a dashboard of risk. Because for me, the risk lens is the ideal lens through which to frame this. And what I'd like to do now is share that with you so that you can get a preview of what the expectation is for where you will be at the completion of this course. In other words, I want you by the end of this course to be able to synthesize your own version of this template. Now you can't do it yet because you simply don't have the information to do it. But I'm going to show it to you now because I wanted to provide the incentive to stick with the details and the challenges of what we're about to go through. Much of what we're about to cover is challenging information as is much of what we've already covered. And it is nuanced and it does require your attention. But the goal here is that by the end of this course, you are able to provide the version one of your risk assessment template, the operating system for how you're going to manage your time and your actions around risk mitigation. Now notice I said version one. The version I'm about to show you for myself is version three, which speaks to the fluid nature of this exercise. We always update this in the presence of new information. That could be new diagnostic tools that ease our concern over a given disease, new therapeutic options that de-risk something even further. Or for example, how something like exercise might allow us to de-risk a liability further. So before I show you my template, let me explain broadly what it's trying to accomplish. The purpose of this dashboard is to rank order the threats to your longevity such that you can determine if you are allocating the right amount of time and energy to the prevention of each. But again, this requires that we go back to understanding a clear definition of longevity. Longevity is both a measure of lifespan and healthspan. And therefore, both of these metrics must be taken into account. Lifespan, as you'll recall, is really going to be governed by the things that rob you of life, namely chronic diseases, but also things like accidental deaths. Healthspan boils down to things that rob you of your physical capacity, your cognitive capacity, and your emotional health. And all of these should be considered. We call this tool the Longevity Risk Assessment, but it really doesn't matter what you call it. It matters that you have all of the inputs that you need to put into it and that you're able to synthesize it into a very helpful and actionable output. So let's start with what the inputs are to this thing. On some level, it starts with understanding population data. In other words, it helps to understand the actuarial nature of death. That sounds like a really grim topic, and I suppose it is. But without actually understanding what the most likely causes of death are, it becomes very difficult to orient yourself around a strategy against it. And by extension, it's equally important to understand all the things that stand in the way of your marginal decade from the standpoint of morbidity, frailty, and things of that nature. But of course, if we only relied on actuarial data, this would be a relatively unhelpful tool because it would completely lack any personalization. So we need to layer on personalization. We need to understand, starting with the exercise you've already done, which is gathering a very detailed family history, what your own risk factors are as it pertains to each of the factors on this list. The next thing we like to layer on this is a sense of lifestyle factors. Now, I hate the word lifestyle factors, but I use it because I think we all understand what it means. For example, if you're a smoker or a former smoker, you have to take that into account, especially when you consider your risk of cancer or atherosclerosis. If you've already suffered a number of injuries, for example, you've already torn your ACL three times, you have to factor that into your assessment of orthopedic injuries. If you have kidney disease that's already rendered you in need of dialysis, you're going to have to factor that into your overall mortality also. The fourth thing I like to layer in is the state of medical advance. For each of the risks, we want to ask ourselves the question, where is medicine today? Not yesterday, today. Potentially, where do we think it's going in terms of either diagnostics or treatments? And how effective are those treatments in the setting of prevention versus active or advanced disease? For example, today we have so many remarkable treatments that work at preventing cardiovascular disease, whereas our treatment for advanced metastatic cancer is still lacking sorely behind. And by understanding differences like that, it would allow us to adjust either up or down our risk assessments as it pertains to atherosclerosis and cancer. Finally, we would look to biomarkers and screening tests to shed even more light on our current state of health with respect to any metric that we concern ourselves with. And again, this can range from things like DEXA scans, which will give us a clear sense of our bone health, muscle mass, visceral fat, all the way up to blood markers that might give us a further risk assessment of genes that we might carry or lipoproteins that we might carry that would pose an unusually high risk. Don't worry if a lot of what I'm saying doesn't make sense, because we're going to cover all of these things in the coming months. But I just want to give you a preview of all of the inputs that you're going to be able to use and you're going to need to use if you want to create an output that is truly helpful and actionable. I sometimes think the best way to appreciate what the longevity risk assessment dashboard looks like is to actually see one that's been sort of fleshed out. And I figure the easiest way to do that is to show you mine. So the first column is the risk itself. The second column is a toggle between healthspan and lifespan, meaning is this process a threat to lifespan, healthspan, or some combination of both? And I just denote that on my chart with plus signs and a dash. So a three plus would be a major threat to that entity, lifespan or healthspan. A one plus would be minor. And a dash would mean that it's really not posing much of a risk at all. Keep in mind what the purpose of this exercise is. I'm trying to rank in order the things that pose the greatest threat to my lifespan and my healthspan. I provide some rationale for why this is the case. But the purpose here is to explain to me how do I get up every day and how do I think about prioritizing my time and my energy, my resources against each of these things. You've heard me tell quite a bit about my family history so far. And you'll recall that cardiovascular disease runs rampant in my family. So you might expect to see ASCVD at the very top of the list. But it turns out it's not. It's quite near the bottom. Now the reason that ASCVD is actually the sixth item on my list, despite the fact that my family history is horrible and despite the fact that at the age of 36 I had a calcium score of six, is because of all of the other factors that go into this type of analysis. First of all, if my calcium score was six at the age of 36 and I did nothing about it, by the time I was 50, my calcium score was 100, and I had evidence of soft plaque on a CT angiogram, it would be a totally different story right now. But that's not the case. You see, I took the most aggressive measures I could, and over the next 14 or 15 years, my damage, as demonstrated by these radiographic studies, has basically remained unchanged. Furthermore, I've taken every step possible to control every measurable and modifiable risk factor. The other thing I would factor into this discussion is that ASCVD is one of the chronic diseases for which we have many treatment options. In other words, I'm very confident that as time goes on and as I age, should the buildup of atherosclerosis invariably continue, albeit at a somewhat decelerated pace, we have treatment options that can extend life quite effectively. So atherosclerosis is predominantly a threat to my lifespan. Now it is true that in its most extreme state, atherosclerosis can lead to congestive heart failure that would also, of course, impede not just lifespan but healthspan. But I view this as predominantly a threat to lifespan. Well if ASCVD is the sixth biggest risk that I have to prioritize, what are the other five? So the fifth priority on my list is accidental death. Now accidents pose a direct threat to my lifespan, but also, especially in motor vehicle accidents and falls, a threat to my healthspan as well. So this is again, a dual threat, both to lifespan and healthspan. Now again, it might seem odd that accidents are ranking as the top five risks that I need to prioritize against. But as you saw in the last section, accidental death is a significant cause of morbidity and mortality across all demographics beginning as young as 25. Indeed, automotive accidents are a huge concern to me. In fact, I think actuarially, they would probably represent, along with cancer, the leading causes of my expected mortality in the next decade. And it's a bit frightening because so much of this seems out of our control. But we can actually mitigate some of this risk. And that's why automotive accidents would actually be fifth on my list instead of being even higher, despite the actuarial nature in the next decade of my life. Remember, this longevity risk assessment is a fluid tool. You should be updating it frequently, at least every year. And what my longevity risk assessment tool looks like today is very different from how it's going to look in five years or 10 years. The reason I believe we can mitigate some of this risk is simply by knowing where these accidents occur and how they occur and how we can use this information to change our driving behavior. Moving up the risk assessment, the next thing on my list is neurodegenerative disease. Neurodegenerative disease poses a threat to both lifespan and healthspan. But as you can see, I've really highlighted the threat to healthspan because even if you don't proceed all the way to dementia, any impairment of cognition will probably reduce a person's quality of life, certainly for someone like me who values the intellectual contribution to the world. Now, it's true that in the next decade, neurodegenerative disease presents an incredibly low risk. And that's why the risk is, say, number four right now instead of number two. But the other reasons that I have it a little bit on the low side are because I don't particularly have a strong family history for this. Now, it could be that because members of my family haven't lived that long, we haven't sat around to watch what people in their 90s look like. But I don't carry any of the high risk genes for neurodegenerative disease. And as I said, even the few people in my family, usually females who have lived into their 80s, haven't seemed to suffer from this condition. Now, that doesn't make me immune because as we're about to learn from Richard Isakson, Anybody with a brain is at risk for dementia. And therefore, we still take as many aggressive steps as we can to reduce risk. The other thing that makes this a pretty high risk endeavor is that we don't really have effective treatments today. In other words, if somebody is in a mildly advanced state of cognitive decline, there seems to be virtually nothing we can do to reverse that and barely anything we can do to halt it. So the name of the game here is going to be prevention. And we're going to go into that in excruciating detail. The third item on my risk assessment is orthopedic injury. And again, this is heavily predicated on my own personal situation. Now, I think for most people, if they take an honest appraisal of themselves, they will come to the same conclusion that orthopedic injury should be high on the list. But whether it should be number one or number seven is really up to your own situation. Orthopedic injury represents an enormous threat to my health span. This is the biggest threat to me personally. As you'll recall from the discussion of my marginal decade, I've already suffered a number of injuries that are predisposing me to ongoing problems as I age. I am one small injury away from requiring not one, but a two level fusion, either in my lower lumbar spine or lower cervical spine. And while neither of these would necessarily pose a threat to my life, they would pose a threat to my quality of life and ultimately my mobility and freedom from pain, especially in that last decade of my life. So if you're asking yourself, what is the purpose of this risk assessment, this is a great example. By showing how high orthopedic injury is on my risk assessment, it tells you just how I put in to my strength and stability training and my prehab. Basically, I'm constantly doing rehab for injuries I don't yet have. In other words, I am prehabbing and treating all of these issues, neck, spine, shoulders, et cetera, in such a way that I'm trying to keep them as healthy as possible to avoid having to one day have surgery and ultimately undergo rehab that can set me back. The second item on my risk assessment is cancer. And of course, cancer primarily poses a threat to lifespan, although of course, devastating treatments can render a threat to a person's health span as well. But the primary goal here is avoiding the reduction of lifespan through cancer. Why is cancer second on my list? Fortunately, my family history is really quite devoid of cancer and I don't have any of the rare but known genetic mutations that predispose an individual to cancer. However, cancer is still the second leading cause of death, both globally and in the United States. And therefore, strictly from an actuarial standpoint, it would be imprudent to ignore this. Now, what do we have going for us? Well, we have very advanced screening techniques that if applied correctly, I believe can greatly reduce the risk of missing a cancer before it's too late. As we'll discuss in great detail with respect to cancer, if goal number one is not to get it, goal number two is to detect it as early as possible. But unfortunately, our treatments for advanced cancer are surprisingly lacking even in this era. And therefore, cancer for me is a greater risk and poses a greater threat than even atherosclerosis despite my own personal family history. So you might be saying, what is the number one risk on my list? We seem to have covered the big diseases, right? Alzheimer's disease, atherosclerosis. We even took care of car accidents and orthopedic injuries. What could possibly be missing? What could possibly be a greater threat to my longevity? So it turns out for me, the greatest threat to my longevity is really a threat to one aspect of my health span, and that's my emotional health. Specifically, it revolves around the constant struggle to strive that ultimately results in misery and unhappy relationships around me. Now, this might not be something that is germane to you, and that's why this is a very personal exercise. But I've certainly learned, especially over the last four or five years, that my own misery and my own negative interactions with people around me who matter probably poses a greater risk to my health span and therefore my longevity than anything I do. To state it in a more blunt manner, what value is it to live as long as possible if you're unhappy in the process? And by having this so high at the top of my list, it's a daily reminder of all the things that I need to do to help with my own self-regulation and the relationships that I have with others. And this is something we're going to dive into a lot deeper as we get to the end of this program, because after so many years of working with so many patients, I've come to realize that I'm not alone in this. And while we all have our own different issues, emotional health, relationships, and self-regulation play such an important role in the quality of our lives that if we ignore this and simply focus on the duration of our lives, many of us end up simply extending our misery. As you go on to create your own risk assessment, or even as you consider the example of mine that I just shared with you, keep in mind a few things. The first is we're really focusing on relative risk here. The absolute risk for many of these things at someone who's 50 years old is not necessarily that high. And if you're younger than I am, if you're filling this out and you're 35 years old, the absolute risk for atherosclerosis, cancer, or neurodegeneration is exceedingly low. But what we're looking for here is a relative risk adjustment. The reason is it's going to help lead to prioritization. And it's important that you don't forget to do something about a condition just because the absolute risk is low. That's the spirit of prevention. The time to act is not when the absolute risk is already very high. The time to act is when the absolute risk is low. So make sure you're thinking about this through the appropriate relative risk and make sure you understand that this is a tool to help you act. It's not an academic exercise. It's an exercise so that you understand how to allocate your most precious resource, which is time. I want each of you to own this exercise and make it the most personal thing that comes out of this entire journey. If you have one piece of paper of notes at the end of this process that you have to show for all of your work, I want it to be this page. And yes, I hope you can scribble all sorts of things in the margins about what you're going to do about them. But if you don't have this template in front of you, it's going to be like setting sail from one end of the Atlantic Ocean and trying to get to the other without a guidance system. The probability that you're going to get to exactly your destination is exceedingly low. You're already well on your way to putting this together. We've already collected family history that has informed you, hopefully in great detail, of the personal and genetic risks that you carry. We've learned about the actuarial side of this through our analysis of the death bars. Our next step is to go much deeper into each of the horsemen. This is where you'll be able to understand exactly where you stack up in terms of risk, what it is that you might or might not be able to or willing to do to offset risk, and therefore further delineate how each of the horsemen will stack up on your longevity risk assessment.